readme.md, before:

# Fluent CMS

## Why another CMS
As a developer, my normal workflow is:
1. Create tables and define relationships in databases.
2. Create APIs can create, read, update, delete data.
3. Create UI page for user to manage data.

ORMs, UI Frameworks can reduce the work, but still programmers are doing repetitive works.

When the first time I saw people using Wordpress Template build websites, I am amazed how a no-programmer, 
with no Knowledge of database at all, can build websites. 
After learn Wordpress database schema, I am amazed by Wordpress dev team's ideas
1. In WordPress, all content-related entities, such as posts, blogs, products, and events, are stored in the "posts" table. 
These entities are distinguished by the "post_type" discriminator.
2. If you have an attribute not in Wordpress's "posts" table, you put attribute name, attribute value ask key-value pair 
to "post_meta".

By this approach, wordpress maximized it's flexibility, but Wordpress has it's limitations:
1. The unique design of the WordPress database schema makes it challenging to utilize the data outside of the WordPress environment.
2. For a single page request, WordPress needs to access the database multiple times, prioritizing flexibility over performance.
3. it's hard to add feature to Wordpress, you have to be familiar with Wordpress Hook and Plug-in to extend Wordpress.

Some CMSs don't follow Wordpress's database fixed schema pattern, those CMS can change database schema, one of the is Strapi's(https://strapi.io/). 
I like Strapi's idea of put schema's definition to a .json file, so we can easily add new entities and extend entities.
But the overall developing experience with Strapi is not good.
1. it's hard to extend strapi's feature, without strong type(strapi is written in node.js), it's very hard to extend a strapi API.
2. strapi's performance is also not good, again, strapi team is also prioritize flexibility.

So I thought, why not build a CMS myself using the language and framework I'm comfortable with? 
It's not difficult with the right tools and focus. 
Fluent CMS is not intended to be as feature-rich as WordPress or Strapi. 
Instead, it will follow a modern microservice architecture, focusing solely on content management. 
Other features like e-commerce, user engagement, and user authentication will be handled by other microservices.


## System overview
![img.png](doc/images/overview.png)

### Frontend UI
For demo purpose, I build a frontend presentation App based on stablo's next.js template. Thanks for stablo's nice and clean template.
- next.js
- stablo https://github.com/web3templates/stablo

![frontend_ui/homepage](doc/images/frontend_ui/homepage.png)

![frontend_ui/post-page](doc/images/frontend_ui/postpage.png)

### Admin UI
- react
- prime react https://primereact.org/
- swr https://swr.vercel.app/

![admin_ui/post_list](doc/images/admin_ui/postlist_page.png)

![admin_ui/post_edit](doc/images/admin_ui/post-edit-page.png)
### Schema Editor
- json-editor https://github.com/json-editor/json-editor
![schema-editor](doc/images/schema_editor/schema-edit-page.png)
### Server
- asp.net core
- entity framework core
- sqlkata, it using dapper ORM behind the scene(https://sqlkata.com/)

Both entity framework and sqlkata can abstract query from specific Database dialect, so I extract database access to 
another layer, currently fluent-cms support postgres sql, it can easily support SQL Server and MySQL in the future. 

## Play With it using Docker

## Development

Commit message:

add docker compose to readme.md

readme.md, after:

# Fluent CMS

## Why another CMS
As a developer, my normal workflow is:
1. Create tables and define relationships in databases.
2. Create APIs can create, read, update, delete data.
3. Create UI page for user to manage data.

ORMs, UI Frameworks can reduce the work, but still programmers are doing repetitive works.

When the first time I saw people using Wordpress Template build websites, I am amazed how a no-programmer, 
with no Knowledge of database at all, can build websites. 
After learn Wordpress database schema, I am amazed by Wordpress dev team's ideas
1. In WordPress, all content-related entities, such as posts, blogs, products, and events, are stored in the "posts" table. 
These entities are distinguished by the "post_type" discriminator.
2. If you have an attribute not in Wordpress's "posts" table, you put attribute name, attribute value ask key-value pair 
to "post_meta".

By this approach, wordpress maximized it's flexibility, but Wordpress has it's limitations:
1. The unique design of the WordPress database schema makes it challenging to utilize the data outside of the WordPress environment.
2. For a single page request, WordPress needs to access the database multiple times, prioritizing flexibility over performance.
3. it's hard to add feature to Wordpress, you have to be familiar with Wordpress Hook and Plug-in to extend Wordpress.

Some CMSs don't follow Wordpress's database fixed schema pattern, those CMS can change database schema, one of the is Strapi's(https://strapi.io/). 
I like Strapi's idea of put schema's definition to a .json file, so we can easily add new entities and extend entities.
But the overall developing experience with Strapi is not good.
1. it's hard to extend strapi's feature, without strong type(strapi is written in node.js), it's very hard to extend a strapi API.
2. strapi's performance is also not good, again, strapi team is also prioritize flexibility.

So I thought, why not build a CMS myself using the language and framework I'm comfortable with? 
It's not difficult with the right tools and focus. 
Fluent CMS is not intended to be as feature-rich as WordPress or Strapi. 
Instead, it will follow a modern microservice architecture, focusing solely on content management. 
Other features like e-commerce, user engagement, and user authentication will be handled by other microservices.


## System overview
![img.png](doc/images/overview.png)

### Frontend UI
For demo purpose, I build a frontend presentation App based on stablo's next.js template. Thanks for stablo's nice and clean template.
- next.js
- stablo https://github.com/web3templates/stablo

![frontend_ui/homepage](doc/images/frontend_ui/homepage.png)

![frontend_ui/post-page](doc/images/frontend_ui/postpage.png)

### Admin UI
- react
- prime react https://primereact.org/
- swr https://swr.vercel.app/

![admin_ui/post_list](doc/images/admin_ui/postlist_page.png)

![admin_ui/post_edit](doc/images/admin_ui/post-edit-page.png)
### Schema Editor
- json-editor https://github.com/json-editor/json-editor
![schema-editor](doc/images/schema_editor/schema-edit-page.png)
### Server
- asp.net core
- entity framework core
- sqlkata, it using dapper ORM behind the scene(https://sqlkata.com/)

Both entity framework and sqlkata can abstract query from specific Database dialect, so I extract database access to 
another layer, currently fluent-cms support postgres sql, it can easily support SQL Server and MySQL in the future. 

## Play With it using Docker
Suppose you have installed docker and docker compose
1. clone the repository
```shell
git clone https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms
```
2. bring up services
```shell
cd docker-play
docker-compose up
```
3. now you can play with the app
- manage content http://localhost:8080  
- demo frontend http://localhost:3000
- the schema editor http://localhost:8080/schema-ui/list.html

## Development
