doc/readme-parts/090-develop.md, before:


## Development
### System Overviews
![System Overview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/overview.png)
- [**Backend Server**](https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/tree/main/server/FluentCMS)
- [**Admin Panel UI**](https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/tree/main/admin-panel)
- [**Schema Builder**](https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/tree/main/schema-ui)
- [**Demo Next.js Public Site**](https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/tree/main/examples/BlogPublicSiteNextJsUI)

### Web Server
- **Tools**:
    - **ASP.NET Core**
    - **SqlKata**: [SqlKata](https://sqlkata.com/)

![API Controller Service](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/api-controller-service.png)

### Admin Panel UI
- **Tools**:
    - **React**
    - **PrimeReact**: [PrimeReact UI Library](https://primereact.org/)
    - **SWR**: [Data Fetching/State Management](https://swr.vercel.app/)

![Admin Panel Sequence](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/admin-panel-sequence.png)

### Schema Builder UI
- **Tools**:
    - **jsoneditor**: [JSON Editor](https://github.com/json-editor/json-editor)

![Schema Builder Sequence](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/schema-builder-sequence.png)

Commit message:

update query and develop chapter of readme

doc/readme-parts/090-develop.md, after:



## Development
<details>
  <summary>The backend is written in ASP.NET Core, the Admin Panel uses React, and the Schema Builder is developed with jQuery</summary>

### System Overviews
![System Overview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/overview.png)
- [**Backend Server**](https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/tree/main/server/FluentCMS)
- [**Admin Panel UI**](https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/tree/main/admin-panel)
- [**Schema Builder**](https://github.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/tree/main/schema-builder)

### Backend Server
- **Tools**:
    - **ASP.NET Core**
    - **SqlKata**: [SqlKata](https://sqlkata.com/)

![API Controller Service](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/api-controller-service.png)

### Admin Panel UI
- **Tools**:
    - **React**
    - **PrimeReact**: [PrimeReact UI Library](https://primereact.org/)
    - **SWR**: [Data Fetching/State Management](https://swr.vercel.app/)

![Admin Panel Sequence](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/admin-panel-sequence.png)

### Schema Builder UI
- **Tools**:
    - **jsoneditor**: [JSON Editor](https://github.com/json-editor/json-editor)

![Schema Builder Sequence](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent-cms/fluent-cms/doc/doc/diagrams/schema-builder-sequence.png)
</details>
